index.md, before:

# riskmetric

`riskmetric` is a collection of risk metrics to evaluate the quality of
R packages.

*This package is in experimentation. Final considerations about design
are being considered, but core concepts are considered final.*

## Background

The risk of using an R package is evaluated based on a number of metrics
meant to evaluate development best practices, code documentation,
community engagement and development sustainability. We hope to provide
a framework to quantify risk by assessing these metrics. This package
serves as a starting point for exploring the heterogeneity of code
quality, and begin a broader conversation about the validation of R
packages. Primarily, this effort aims to provide some context for
validation within regulated industries.

We separate three steps in the workflow to assess the risk of an R
package using `riskmetric`:

1.  **Finding a source for package information (installed package or
    CRAN/git source)** [`pkg_ref()`](reference/pkg_ref.md)
2.  **Assessing the package under validation criteria**
    [`pkg_assess()`](reference/pkg_assess.md)
3.  **Scoring assessment criteria**
    [`pkg_score()`](reference/pkg_score.md)

The results will be assembled in a dataset of validation criteria
containing an overall risk score for each package as shown in the
example below.

## Installation

You can install `riskmetric` from CRAN with:

``` r
install.packages("riskmetric")
```

Or from GitHub using `devtools` with:

``` r
devtools::install_github("pharmaR/riskmetric")
```

## Example

Scrape metadata locally or remotely, then assess that metadata and score
it to estimate risk. For each package, derive a composite measure of
risk, or a collection of individual scores which can be easily used to
generate validation reports.

``` r
library(dplyr)
library(riskmetric)

pkg_ref(c("riskmetric", "utils", "tools")) %>%
  pkg_assess() %>%
  pkg_score()
```

## The `{riskassessment}` application [![](reference/figures/hex-riskassessment-aspconfig.png)](https://pharmar.github.io/riskassessment/)

`riskassessment` is a full-fledged R package containing a shiny
front-end that augments the utility of `riskmetric`. The application’s
goal is to provide a central hub for an organization to review and
assess the risk of R packages, providing handy tools and guide rails
along the way. The app uses a local database to store & display:

- all `riskmetric` metrics, including package risk scores over time
- organization-wide metric weighting, plus rules to automate org
  decisions (whether to endorse/ prohibit the pkg)
- package-level user dialogue on the perceived risk, to facilitate
  communication & notes

To learn more about `riskassessment`, please browse the [user
guide](https://pharmar.github.io/riskassessment/) or consider taking the
[demo app](https://rinpharma.shinyapps.io/risk_assessment) for a spin.

## Get Involved

We have a bi-weekly sprint meeting for developers to discuss the
progress.

- Contact `eric.milliman@biogen.com` to be added to the meeting.
- [Project Planning Meeting
  Structure](https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric/issues/57)
- [Milestone](https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric/milestones)

`riskmetric` is centrally a community project. Comfort with a
quantification of risk comes via consensus, and for that this project is
dependent on close community engagement. There are plenty of ways to
help:

- Share the package
- File [issues](https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric/issues) when you
  encounter bugs
- Weigh in on proposed metrics, or [suggest a new
  one](https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric/issues/new?labels=Metric%20Proposal)
- Help us devise the best way to summarize risk into a single score
- Help us keep documentation up to date
- Contribute code to tackle the metric backlog

Commit message:

Built site for riskmetric@0.2.5: e4e5ff2

index.md, after:

# riskmetric

`riskmetric` is a collection of risk metrics to evaluate the quality of
R packages.

> \[!IMPORTANT\]
>
> Lifecycle: **Maintenance Only**
>
> The *R Validation Hub* is shifting development efforts to our new
> flagship assessment tool,
> [`{val.meter}`](https://github.com/pharmaR/val.meter). While
> development is not ending for
> [riskmetric](https://pharmar.github.io/riskmetric/), it has shifted to
> maintenance-only. Please continue to file bug reports for erroneous
> behaviors, but for feature requests and discussion on approach, please
> head over to `{val.meter}`.

## Background

The risk of using an R package is evaluated based on a number of metrics
meant to evaluate development best practices, code documentation,
community engagement and development sustainability. We hope to provide
a framework to quantify risk by assessing these metrics. This package
serves as a starting point for exploring the heterogeneity of code
quality, and begin a broader conversation about the validation of R
packages. Primarily, this effort aims to provide some context for
validation within regulated industries.

We separate three steps in the workflow to assess the risk of an R
package using `riskmetric`:

1.  **Finding a source for package information (installed package or
    CRAN/git source)** [`pkg_ref()`](reference/pkg_ref.md)
2.  **Assessing the package under validation criteria**
    [`pkg_assess()`](reference/pkg_assess.md)
3.  **Scoring assessment criteria**
    [`pkg_score()`](reference/pkg_score.md)

The results will be assembled in a dataset of validation criteria
containing an overall risk score for each package as shown in the
example below.

## Installation

You can install `riskmetric` from CRAN with:

``` r
install.packages("riskmetric")
```

Or from GitHub using `devtools` with:

``` r
devtools::install_github("pharmaR/riskmetric")
```

## Example

Scrape metadata locally or remotely, then assess that metadata and score
it to estimate risk. For each package, derive a composite measure of
risk, or a collection of individual scores which can be easily used to
generate validation reports.

``` r
library(dplyr)
library(riskmetric)

pkg_ref(c("riskmetric", "utils", "tools")) %>%
  pkg_assess() %>%
  pkg_score()
```

## The `{riskassessment}` application [![](reference/figures/hex-riskassessment-aspconfig.png)](https://pharmar.github.io/riskassessment/)

`riskassessment` is a full-fledged R package containing a shiny
front-end that augments the utility of `riskmetric`. The application’s
goal is to provide a central hub for an organization to review and
assess the risk of R packages, providing handy tools and guide rails
along the way. The app uses a local database to store & display:

- all `riskmetric` metrics, including package risk scores over time
- organization-wide metric weighting, plus rules to automate org
  decisions (whether to endorse/ prohibit the pkg)
- package-level user dialogue on the perceived risk, to facilitate
  communication & notes

To learn more about `riskassessment`, please browse the [user
guide](https://pharmar.github.io/riskassessment/) or consider taking the
[demo app](https://rinpharma.shinyapps.io/risk_assessment) for a spin.

## Get Involved

We have a bi-weekly sprint meeting for developers to discuss the
progress.

- Contact `eric.milliman@biogen.com` to be added to the meeting.
- [Project Planning Meeting
  Structure](https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric/issues/57)
- [Milestone](https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric/milestones)

`riskmetric` is centrally a community project. Comfort with a
quantification of risk comes via consensus, and for that this project is
dependent on close community engagement. There are plenty of ways to
help:

- Share the package
- File [issues](https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric/issues) when you
  encounter bugs
- Weigh in on proposed metrics, or [suggest a new
  one](https://github.com/pharmaR/riskmetric/issues/new?labels=Metric%20Proposal)
- Help us devise the best way to summarize risk into a single score
- Help us keep documentation up to date
- Contribute code to tackle the metric backlog
